src/ts/bs-gameboard/helpers/check-valid-placement/check-valid-placement.md, before:

## `check-valid-placement.ts`

This function determines all valid positions for placing a game piece of a specified length on a gameboard, considering its orientation (horizontal or vertical). It checks if the piece would fit within the board's bounds and ensures that all required spaces for placement are vacant. The function returns an array of valid positions where the piece can be placed without overlapping occupied spaces or extending beyond the board's edges.

### `VACANT` & `OCCUPIED` Symbols

When pondering about what values I should fill my gameboard with I found myself in a bit of a pickle.

"I could use `null`" was my initial decision because it made sense syntactically and semantically, as the empty spaces on the board _can_ be described as 'representing the intentional absence of any object value'. Pretty much just fancier way of saying a placeholder.

Settled! Cool!

But now what shall become of these values once they are `OCCUPIED`? (8 bit of foreshadowing about my point).

'I could set it to `true`' was my initial thought. Syntactically it would make sense, as I could store the positions `true` value in an `isOccupied` variable to do with as I please. But, semantically, something about it not being descriptive enough. What _exactly_ is happening when the value is set to `true`? 

Wait, there's a thing called a `symbol`, whats that? 

...And _why_ am I writing expressively as a means of procrastination right now. I'll Google the first now, and figure out the latter later.

#### Whats a `Symbol` Yo?!

> Ok, I'm reverting back to a more technical writing style now. kThxBye 💭

Using `Symbol`s in JavaScript provides several advantages, particularly when dealing with scenarios like my battleship game board implementation. 

**Here's a list of benefits of using `Symbols` over other data structures or types for simple purposes:**

##### 1. **Uniqueness and Collision Avoidance**
   - **Guaranteed Uniqueness**: Each `Symbol` is unique, even if created with the same description. This ensures that keys or values using `Symbols` won't accidentally collide with others, which is especially useful in shared or global environments.
   - **Prevents Accidental Overwrites**: When you use `Symbols` as keys in objects or elements in arrays, there is no risk of overwriting existing properties or values that might use the same string or number key.

##### 2. **Hidden Properties**
   - **Non-Enumerable by Default**: Properties defined using `Symbols` are not enumerable by default, meaning they don’t show up in loops like `for...in` or when using `Object.keys`. This makes them ideal for adding metadata or "hidden" properties that shouldn’t interfere with normal object operations.
   - **Enhanced Privacy**: Because `Symbols` are not accessible via typical object property access patterns, they provide a weak form of encapsulation. Other code won’t accidentally interact with or modify properties that use `Symbols` as keys.

##### 3. **Clarity and Intentionality**
   - **Clear Semantics**: Using `Symbols` can make your code more expressive and intentional. For example, by using `Symbol('VACANT')` and `Symbol('OCCUPIED')`, it’s clear that these values are meant to represent specific states on the board, rather than generic strings or numbers that could be misunderstood or misused.
   - **Avoiding String Comparisons**: Instead of comparing strings (which can be error-prone if there are typos or case differences), you can compare `Symbols` directly, ensuring that only the exact intended state or value is matched.

##### 4. **Immutable Constants**
   - **Immutable by Nature**: `Symbols` are immutable once created, meaning their value cannot be changed. This is useful for defining constants, like different states of your game board, that should never be altered.

##### 5. **Compatibility with Various Data Structures**
   - **Usage in Objects and Arrays**: `Symbols` can be used as keys in objects and as values in arrays or sets, making them versatile across different data structures. This is particularly helpful when you need unique identifiers within data collections.

##### 6. **Well-Suited for Symbolic Logic**
   - **Representing Abstract Concepts**: `Symbols` are ideal for representing abstract concepts or unique states, such as `'VACANT'` and `'OCCUPIED'` on a game board, without the risk of overlap with other strings or numbers in your code.

##### 7. **Enhanced Integration with Libraries**
   - **Interoperability**: Many JavaScript libraries and frameworks (e.g., Redux) utilize `Symbols` for defining action types or unique keys. By understanding and using `Symbols`, your code can integrate more effectively with such tools, ensuring compatibility and preventing naming conflicts.

##### 8. **Reduced Risk of Magic Strings**
   - **Avoids "Magic Strings"**: Using `Symbols` helps to avoid the pitfalls of "magic strings" (hard-coded strings that are used for logic decisions). Magic strings can be error-prone and hard to refactor, while `Symbols` provide a more robust and maintainable alternative.

##### 9. **Lightweight and Performance-Friendly**
   - **Minimal Memory Overhead**: `Symbols` are lightweight and don't carry the same memory overhead as some other data structures, making them efficient for scenarios like filling arrays or marking states.

##### Example in Context:
In my battleship gameboard implementation, I use `Symbol('V')` stored as `VACANT` and `Symbol('O')` stored as `OCCUPIED` to fill a 2D array. This approach ensures:
   - **No Collisions**: Other parts of the code won't mistakenly overwrite or interact with these values.
   - **Clear Intent**: It's clear what each `Symbol` represents, improving code readability.
   - **Efficient State Management**: I manage the state of the board in a lightweight, performance-friendly manner without the risk of confusing states or accidental changes.

By leveraging `Symbols`, I am taking advantage of their unique and immutable nature, enhancing the robustness and clarity of my code.

I gave the symbols single letter descriptors (accessible via a symbols `.description` property) so that when printing our board to see the values, instead of seeing an insurmountable amount of  `VACANT` or `OCCUPIED` strings, we'd see single letters in monospace, giving the gameboard symmetry, enhancing readability. 

### The `Position` Interface

This interface is designed to define the structure of our `Position` objects, ensuring they adhere to a specific format. Doing so has several benefits, such as providing type safety and improving code clarity. For more details, check out [Interface Benefits](../../../ship/ship.md####Benefits-of-an-Interface).

Interfaces don't create custom types per se, but rather describe the shape of objects that are used with those types. They provide a contract that objects must adhere to.

### The Meat & Potatoes - `checkValidPlacement`

#### Parameters

This function takes in vital information to determine whether or not a particularly precise position is a valid for game-piece placement:

  * `direction`: This parameter checks the orientation of the ship being placed. This will determine whether the algorithm checks rows or columns for potential valid positions.

  * `axisIndex`: The row or column number in question. Depending on the orientation of the ship, the algorithm will need to either check empty spaces of the gameboard in rows, if the ship is horizontal, or in columns, if the ship is vertical. 

  * `gamePieceSize`: The amount of units on the gameboard that our piece takes up. To determine whether the piece would fit in the provided row/column.

---

> In my writing, at this very moment, I just had an epiphany. Maybe I should add logic for ships with a size of `1`, as I've seen several implementations of the game with such ships. Instead I'll refer back to the games Wikipedia page. 

> Ah! I've discovered that the smallest ship in Battleship has a size of `2` units! Work smarter not harder my friends. Now, all I have to do refactor my `gamePieceSize` constraint checks. It's a lot easier to make this small change than to add the logic for a piece that won't exist! Rules. Without them, we might as well live with the animals. 💭

``` typescript
  // Validate piece length

  // Out with the old:
  if (pieceLength <= 0) {
    throw new Error('Ship length must be greater than zero.');
  }

  // In with the new:
  if (gamePieceSize < 2 || gamePieceSize > 5) {
    throw new Error('Invalid piece length. Game piece length must be between 2 and 5.');
  }
```

--- 

  * `boardSize`: This value determines the size of the `for` loops when iterating through rows and/or columns to determine whether or not the ship fits. This particular parameter is vital because it prevents the ships from being placed out of bounds.

  * `gameboard`: This parameter expects the gameboard object as its argument. As we are preparing to _mutate_ with _zombie_ ships. 
  
  In looping through the current row/column of the `gameboard`:
    * Depending on the orientation,
    * The size of the ship,
    * and the information provided by the gameboard that tells us which positions in the `axisArray` are `OCCUPIED`…
    
  The algorithm is able to determine whether or not there is space for the current ship being placed and its specific size.

All data above is processed in the function and what's returned is an array of valid positions for the current ship being placed.

#### The **Algo**

For the sake of brevity, I will only cover a **couple** of snippets that, may or may not be, infinitesimally complex to an intermediate level of developer.

##### 1. **`getAxisArray` Logic For Vertically Oriented Ships

This logic traverses the provided gameboard. 
Since it is implemented in the form of a 2D array, we can do so iteratively by its rows (`horizontal`) and columns (`vertical`). The logic for vertical traversal is minutely more complicated than its horizontal counterpart:

``` javascript
// Populate `axisArray` with column data

// Original: 
for (let i = 0; i < boardSize; i++) {
  const columnValue = gameboard[i][axisIndex];
  axisArray.push(columnValue);
}

// Refactored (for readability):
gameboard.forEach(row => {
  const columnValue = row[axisIndex];
  axisArray.push(columnValue);
});
```

Traversing our rows is straightforward (literally). All items of the same row are stored contiguously (within the _same_ array). Therefore, in determining the states of horizontal positions, all we need to do is use the provided `axisIndex` to access the specific row of the 2D array under test. 

Traversing our columns? Not so simple. In order to access all items of a requested column, we need to extract the values from each row in the 2D array at `axisIndex`. It requires accessing a non-contiguous memory location. 

Hence, we:
1. Initialize `axisArray` as an empty array.
2. Use `boardSize` to iteratively access the rows via the `forEach` method.
3. Push the value at `axisIndex` of each row to `axisArray`.

This method _preserves the order of the columns values_ while _enabling us to store them contiguously_. This is the recipe that allows us to use the same methods used to process a row for our column.

**⚠️ Note:** We are only able to use `boardSize` in our loop because the gameboard is a square (Thus, the size of the rows and columns are the same).

##### 2. **`getValidPositions`**:

This function identifies valid positions for placing a ship on the gameboard, based on its size and orientation.

``` javascript
let streak: number = 0;
let validShipPositions: Position[] = [];

for (let i = 0; i < boardSize; i++) {
  if (axisArray[i] === VACANT) {
    streak++;

    if (streak >= gamePieceSize) {
      const bowPosition =
        direction === 'horizontal'
          ? [axisIndex, i - (gamePieceSize - 1)]
          : [i - (gamePieceSize - 1), axisIndex];
      const sternPosition =
        direction === 'horizontal' ? [axisIndex, i] :[i, axisIndex];

      const validPosition: Position = {
        bow: bowPosition,
        stern: sternPosition,
      };

      validShipPositions.push(validPosition);
    }
  } else if (axisArray[i] === OCCUPIED) {
    streak = 0;
  }
}
```

---

**✨ Side Note:**

When structuring code, I tend to:

* Place utility functions in a globally scoped directory (`src` folder). 

* Nest helper functions within the directory of the module they assist, inside a `helpers` directory. 

* Use function expressions within function declarations to assign parts of a function to variables. This enhances readability and effectively creates logical separations to indicate that the separated logic is a "mini-helper". 

---

###### Function Dependencies:

When `getValidPositions` is called, its dependencies (`axisArray`, `direction`, `axisIndex`, `gamePieceSize`) are already provided via the outer functions parameters.

**Variable Initialization:**

Within the "mini-helper"::

  * `streak`: Tracks the number of consecutive `VACANT` positions in the specified row or column.
  * `validShipPositions`: An array to hold valid ship positions conforming to the `Position` interface specification.

**Logic Explanation:**  

The function iterates over `axisArray` once, checking each value:

  * If the position is `VACANT`, increment `streak`.
  * If the position is `OCCUPIED`, reset `streak`.

The `streak` helps determine if a sufficient number of consecutive `VACANT` positions are available for the ships placement.

When `streak` is greater than or equal to `gamePieceSize`, it indicates that the current position is valid for the bow of the ship. The `stern` can be placed in the preceding `VACANT` spaces.

**Design Decision:**

I _could have_ fine-tuned the logic to make ship direction `gameboard`-dependent, where ally and enemy ships face each other; However, I implemented a simple ship UI design where the bow and stern are indistinguishable. Therefore, I chose not to complicate the code design.

**Variable Naming**

Consider the variable names purely informative. `endOne` and `endTwo` weren't sufficient enough for my taste. `bow` and `stern` provide enhanced readability and clarity, making the code more intuitive.   

###### Quick Walkthrough:

Given:

* A 'Destroyer' ship (`gamePieceSize` of 3) with a `horizontal` orientation.
* `axisIndex` of 3.

Assume the rows content is:

``` javascript
[V, V, V, O, O, V, V, V, V]
```

During the third iteration where `i === 2` and `streak === 3`, `streak >= gamePieceSize`, thus, we have our first valid position in the row in our ship where:

  * `bowPosition` is stored as `[axisIndex, i]`. This corresponds to `[3, 2]`.
  * `sternPosition` is stored as `[axisIndex, i - (gamepieceSize - 1)]`. Plugging in our values we get `[3, 2 - (3 - 1)]`. Simplifying this further, we get `[3, 0]`.

Both of these values are stored in an object representing a valid position, and it is pushed to the `validShipPositions` array.

After resetting the streak and iterating further, other valid positions are identified and added to `validShipPositions`.

The final array is:

``` javascript
[
  { bow: [3, 2], stern: [3, 0] },
  { bow: [3, 7], stern: [3, 5] }, 
  { bow: [3, 8], stern: [3, 6] } 
]
```

This array, returned at the end of the function call, represents valid positions for placing the 'Destroyer' ship. The logic applies similarly to columns for vertically oriented ships.

Commit message:

docs(check-valid-placement.md): fix typos

src/ts/bs-gameboard/helpers/check-valid-placement/check-valid-placement.md, after:

## `check-valid-placement.ts`

This function identifies all valid positions for placing a game piece of a specified size on a game board, based on its orientation (horizontal or vertical). It verifies that the piece fits within the board's boundaries and that all required spaces are unoccupied. The function returns an array of positions where the piece can be placed without overlapping existing pieces or exceeding the board’s edges.

### `VACANT` & `OCCUPIED` Symbols

When pondering about what values to fill my gameboard with initially, I found myself in a bit of a pickle.

I could use `null`. This makes sense syntactically and semantically, as the empty spaces on the board _can_ be described as 'representing the intentional absence of any object value'. Which is pretty much just a fancier way of saying "placeholder".

Settled! Cool!

But now what shall become of these values once they are `OCCUPIED`? 

'I could set the values to `true`' was my initial thought. Syntactically it would make sense, as I could store the positions `true` value in an `isOccupied` variable to do with as I please. But, semantically, something about it not being descriptive enough. What _exactly_ is happening when the value is set to `true`? 

Wait, there's a thing called a `symbol` right? Whats that? 

...And _why_ am I writing expressively as a means of procrastination right now. I'll Google the first now, and figure out the latter later.

#### Whats a `Symbol` Yo?!

> Ok, I'm reverting back to a more technical writing style now. kThxBye 💭

Using `Symbol`s in JavaScript provides several advantages, particularly when dealing with scenarios like my battleship game board implementation. 

**Here's a list of benefits of using `Symbols` over other data structures or types for simple purposes:**

##### 1. **Uniqueness and Collision Avoidance**
   - **Guaranteed Uniqueness**: Each `Symbol` is unique, even if created with the same description. This ensures that keys or values using `Symbols` won't accidentally collide with others, which is especially useful in shared or global environments.
   - **Prevents Accidental Overwrites**: When you use `Symbols` as keys in objects or elements in arrays, there is no risk of overwriting existing properties or values that might use the same string or number key.

##### 2. **Hidden Properties**
   - **Non-Enumerable by Default**: Properties defined using `Symbols` are not enumerable by default, meaning they don’t show up in loops like `for...in` or when using `Object.keys`. This makes them ideal for adding metadata or "hidden" properties that shouldn’t interfere with normal object operations.
   - **Enhanced Privacy**: Because `Symbols` are not accessible via typical object property access patterns, they provide a weak form of encapsulation. Other code won’t accidentally interact with or modify properties that use `Symbols` as keys.

##### 3. **Clarity and Intentionality**
   - **Clear Semantics**: Using `Symbols` can make your code more expressive and intentional. For example, by using `Symbol('VACANT')` and `Symbol('OCCUPIED')`, it’s clear that these values are meant to represent specific states on the board, rather than generic strings or numbers that could be misunderstood or misused.
   - **Avoiding String Comparisons**: Instead of comparing strings (which can be error-prone if there are typos or case differences), you can compare `Symbols` directly, ensuring that only the exact intended state or value is matched.

##### 4. **Immutable Constants**
   - **Immutable by Nature**: `Symbols` are immutable once created, meaning their value cannot be changed. This is useful for defining constants, like different states of your game board, that should never be altered.

##### 5. **Compatibility with Various Data Structures**
   - **Usage in Objects and Arrays**: `Symbols` can be used as keys in objects and as values in arrays or sets, making them versatile across different data structures. This is particularly helpful when you need unique identifiers within data collections.

##### 6. **Well-Suited for Symbolic Logic**
   - **Representing Abstract Concepts**: `Symbols` are ideal for representing abstract concepts or unique states, such as `'VACANT'` and `'OCCUPIED'` on a game board, without the risk of overlap with other strings or numbers in your code.

##### 7. **Enhanced Integration with Libraries**
   - **Interoperability**: Many JavaScript libraries and frameworks (e.g., Redux) utilize `Symbols` for defining action types or unique keys. By understanding and using `Symbols`, your code can integrate more effectively with such tools, ensuring compatibility and preventing naming conflicts.

##### 8. **Reduced Risk of Magic Strings**
   - **Avoids "Magic Strings"**: Using `Symbols` helps to avoid the pitfalls of "magic strings" (hard-coded strings that are used for logic decisions). Magic strings can be error-prone and hard to refactor, while `Symbols` provide a more robust and maintainable alternative.

##### 9. **Lightweight and Performance-Friendly**
   - **Minimal Memory Overhead**: `Symbols` are lightweight and don't carry the same memory overhead as some other data structures, making them efficient for scenarios like filling arrays or marking states.

##### Example in Context:
In my battleship gameboard implementation, I use `Symbol('V')` stored as `VACANT` and `Symbol('O')` stored as `OCCUPIED` to fill a 2D array. This approach ensures:
   - **No Collisions**: Other parts of the code won't mistakenly overwrite or interact with these values.
   - **Clear Intent**: It's clear what each `Symbol` represents, improving code readability.
   - **Efficient State Management**: I manage the state of the board in a lightweight, performance-friendly manner without the risk of confusing states or accidental changes.

By leveraging `Symbols`, I am taking advantage of their unique and immutable nature, enhancing the robustness and clarity of my code.

I gave the symbols single letter descriptors (accessible via a symbols `.description` property) so that when printing our board to see the values, instead of seeing an insurmountable amount of  `VACANT` or `OCCUPIED` strings, we'd see single letters in monospace, giving the gameboard symmetry, enhancing readability. 

### The `Position` Interface

This interface is designed to define the structure of our `Position` objects, ensuring they adhere to a specific format. Doing so has several benefits, such as providing type safety and improving code clarity. For more details, check out [Interface Benefits](../../../ship/ship.md####Benefits-of-an-Interface).

Interfaces don't create custom types per se, but rather describe the shape of objects that are used with those types. They provide a contract that objects must adhere to.

### The Meat & Potatoes - `checkValidPlacement`

#### Parameters

This function takes in vital information to determine whether or not a particularly precise position is a valid for game-piece placement:

  * `direction`: This parameter checks the orientation of the ship being placed. This will determine whether the algorithm checks rows or columns for potential valid positions.

  * `axisIndex`: The row or column number in question. Depending on the orientation of the ship, the algorithm will need to either check empty spaces of the gameboard in rows, if the ship is horizontal, or in columns, if the ship is vertical. 

  * `gamePieceSize`: The amount of units on the gameboard that our piece takes up. To determine whether the piece would fit in the provided row/column.

---

> In my writing, at this very moment, I just had an epiphany. Maybe I should add logic for ships with a size of `1`, as I've seen several implementations of the game with such ships. Instead I'll refer back to the games Wikipedia page. 

> Ah! I've discovered that the smallest ship in Battleship has a size of `2` units! Work smarter not harder my friends. Now, all I have to do refactor my `gamePieceSize` constraint checks. It's a lot easier to make this small change than to add the logic for a piece that won't exist! Rules. Without them, we might as well live with the animals. 💭

``` typescript
  // Validate piece length

  // Out with the old:
  if (pieceLength <= 0) {
    throw new Error('Ship length must be greater than zero.');
  }

  // In with the new:
  if (gamePieceSize < 2 || gamePieceSize > 5) {
    throw new Error('Invalid piece length. Game piece length must be between 2 and 5.');
  }
```

--- 

  * `boardSize`: This value determines the size of the `for` loops when iterating through rows and/or columns to determine whether or not the ship fits. This particular parameter is vital because it prevents the ships from being placed out of bounds.

  * `gameboard`: This parameter expects the gameboard object as its argument. As we are preparing to _mutate_ it with ship additions. 
  
  In looping through the current row/column of the `gameboard`:
    * Depending on the orientation,
    * The size of the ship,
    * and the information provided by the gameboard that tells us which positions in the `axisArray` are `OCCUPIED`…
    
  The algorithm is able to determine whether or not there is space for the current ship being placed and its specific size.

All data above is processed in the function and what's returned is an array of valid positions for the current ship being placed.

#### The **Algo**

For the sake of brevity, I will only cover a **couple** of snippets that, may or may not be, infinitesimally complex to an intermediate level of developer.

##### 1. **`getAxisArray` Logic For Vertically Oriented Ships

This logic traverses the provided gameboard. 
Since it is implemented in the form of a 2D array, we can do so iteratively by its rows (`horizontal`) and columns (`vertical`). The logic for vertical traversal is minutely more complicated than its horizontal counterpart:

``` javascript
// Populate `axisArray` with column data

// Original: 
for (let i = 0; i < boardSize; i++) {
  const columnValue = gameboard[i][axisIndex];
  axisArray.push(columnValue);
}

// Refactored (for readability):
gameboard.forEach(row => {
  const columnValue = row[axisIndex];
  axisArray.push(columnValue);
});
```

Traversing our rows is straightforward (_literally_). All items of the same row are stored contiguously (within the _same_ array). Therefore, in determining the states of horizontal positions, all we need to do is use the provided `axisIndex` to access the specific row of the 2D array under test. 

Traversing our columns? Not so simple. In order to access all items of a requested column, we need to extract the values from each row in the 2D array at `axisIndex`. It requires accessing a non-contiguous memory location. 

Hence, we:
1. Initialize `axisArray` as an empty array.
2. Use `boardSize` to iteratively access the rows via the `forEach` method.
3. Push the value at `axisIndex` of each row to `axisArray`.

This method _preserves the order of the columns values_ while _enabling us to store them contiguously_. This recipe allows us to use the same methods used to process a row, for our column.

**⚠️ Note:** We are only able to use `boardSize` in our loop because the gameboard is a square. The size of the rows and columns are the same, so `axisArray` will always be a fixed length. 

##### 2. **`getValidPositions`**:

This function identifies valid positions for placing a ship on the gameboard, based on its size and orientation.

``` javascript
let streak: number = 0;
let validShipPositions: Position[] = [];

for (let i = 0; i < boardSize; i++) {
  if (axisArray[i] === VACANT) {
    streak++;

    if (streak >= gamePieceSize) {
      const bowPosition =
        direction === 'horizontal'
          ? [axisIndex, i - (gamePieceSize - 1)]
          : [i - (gamePieceSize - 1), axisIndex];
      const sternPosition =
        direction === 'horizontal' ? [axisIndex, i] :[i, axisIndex];

      const validPosition: Position = {
        bow: bowPosition,
        stern: sternPosition,
      };

      validShipPositions.push(validPosition);
    }
  } else if (axisArray[i] === OCCUPIED) {
    streak = 0;
  }
}
```

---

**✨ Side Note:**

When structuring code, I tend to, at this time of writing:

* Place utility functions in a globally scoped directory (`src` folder). 

* Nest helper functions within the directory of the module they assist, inside a `helpers` directory. 

* Use function expressions within function declarations to assign parts of a function to variables. This enhances readability and effectively creates logical separations to indicate that the separated logic is a "mini-helper". 

---

###### Function Dependencies:

When `getValidPositions` is called, its dependencies (`axisArray`, `direction`, `axisIndex`, `gamePieceSize`) are already provided via the outer functions parameters.

**Variable Initialization:**

Within the "mini-helper"::

  * `streak`: Tracks the number of consecutive `VACANT` positions in the specified row or column.
  * `validShipPositions`: An array to hold valid ship positions conforming to the `Position` interface specification.

**Logic Explanation:**  

The function iterates over `axisArray` once, checking each value:

  * If the position is `VACANT`, increment `streak`.
  * If the position is `OCCUPIED`, reset `streak`.

The `streak` helps determine if a sufficient number of consecutive `VACANT` positions are available for the ships placement.

When `streak` is greater than or equal to `gamePieceSize`, it indicates that the current position is valid for the `stern` of the ship. The `bow` can be placed in the preceding `VACANT` spaces.

**Design Decision:**

I _could have_ fine-tuned the logic to make ship direction `gameboard`-dependent, where ally and enemy ships face each other; However, I implemented a simple ship UI design where the bow and stern are indistinguishable. Therefore, I chose not to complicate the code design.

**Variable Naming**

Consider the variable names purely informative. `endOne` and `endTwo` weren't sufficient enough for my taste. `bow` and `stern` provide enhanced readability and clarity, making the code more intuitive.   

###### Quick Walkthrough:

Given:

* A 'Destroyer' ship (`gamePieceSize` of 3) with a `horizontal` orientation.
* `axisIndex` of 3.

Assume the rows content is:

``` javascript
[V, V, V, O, O, V, V, V, V]
```

During the third iteration where `i === 2` and `streak === 3`, `streak >= gamePieceSize`, thus, we have our first valid position in the row in our ship where:

  * `bowPosition` is stored as `[axisIndex, i]`. This corresponds to `[3, 2]`.
  * `sternPosition` is stored as `[axisIndex, i - (gamepieceSize - 1)]`. Plugging in our values we get `[3, 2 - (3 - 1)]`. Simplifying this further, we get `[3, 0]`.

Both of these values are stored in an object representing a valid position, and it is pushed to the `validShipPositions` array.

After resetting the streak and iterating further, other valid positions are identified and added to `validShipPositions`.

The final array is:

``` javascript
[
  { bow: [3, 2], stern: [3, 0] },
  { bow: [3, 7], stern: [3, 5] }, 
  { bow: [3, 8], stern: [3, 6] } 
]
```

This array, returned at the end of the function call, represents valid positions for placing the 'Destroyer' ship. The logic applies similarly to columns for vertically oriented ships.
