src/typescript/logic/bs-ship-factory/bs-ship-factory.md, before:

## `bs-ship.ts`

### Supplemental & Contextual Information

#### What's a `Record`?

In TypeScript, the `Record` utility type is used to create a type for an object with specific keys and corresponding values. It allows you to define a type that maps a set of keys to a specific type of value. 

* `Record<K, V>`: This is a utility type provided by TypeScript. It constructs an object type with properties of type `V` for keys of type `K`.

* When using `Record<SizeLookupKey, number | undefined>`, TypeScript expects that the `sizeLookup` object will include all possible keys defined by the `SizeLookupKey` type. `Record` ensures that the object conforms to the types shape, which means it should have all the keys that the `SizeLookupKey` type can produce. This is to ensure the prevention of runtime errors.

### `SHIP_SYMBOLS` 
<!-- TODO: -->


### `sizeLookup: Record<SizeLookupKey, number | undefined>`

This `sizeLookup` object was defined as a `Record` to ensure that all potential combinations of `ShipType` and `Version` are accounted for and explicitly handled. By using `Record<SizeLookupKey, number | undefined>`, TypeScript enforces that the `sizeLookup` object contains all possible keys derived from the `SizeLookupKey` type, which combines `ShipType` and `Version`. 

#### Key Points:

- **Complete Key Coverage**: The `Record` utility type ensures that every key represented by `SizeLookupKey` is present in the `sizeLookup` object, even if the corresponding value is `undefined`. This guarantees that all expected key combinations are accounted for, which can help prevent runtime errors related to missing keys.

- **Type Safety**: Using `Record` provides strict type checking, making sure that the `sizeLookup` object adheres to the defined shape. It helps maintain consistency and predictability in how keys and values are managed.

- **Explicit Handling**: Including all possible keys, even with `undefined` values, makes it clear which combinations are valid but currently not used, and allows for future flexibility if these keys become relevant.

### `BattleshipFactory imlements IShipOptions` Class

`BattleshipFactory` implements the `IShipOptions` interface and provides the actual logic for how the ship’s state changes, such as updating hits, checking if it's sunk, and any other behavior associated with the ship.

#### `public` Keyword 

In TypeScript, when you define a class that implements an interface, you typically need to explicitly declare the properties of the class before you can use them in the constructor or elsewhere.

Take, for example this **simplified**, _incorrect_ implementation:

``` typescript
class BattleshipFactory implements IShipOptions {
  constructor(
    type: string, 
    size: number, 
    seaworthy: boolean,
    hitCounter: number 
    ) {
    this.size = size;
    this.seaworthy = seaworthy;
    this.hitCounter = hitCounter;
  }
}
```

This code is _attempting_ to assign values to `this.size`, `this.hitCounter`, and `this.seaworthy`, but these properties haven't been declared in the class. TypeScript expects you to **explicitly** declare these properties within the class before using them.

Here is one fix:

``` typescript
class BattleshipFactory implements IShipOptions {
  type: string, 
  size: number;
  seaworthy: boolean;
  hitCounter: number;

  constructor(
    type: string, 
    size: number, 
    seaworthy: boolean,
    hitCounter: number
    ) {
    this.size = size;
    this.seaworthy = seaworthy;
    this.hitCounter = hitCounter;
  }
}
```

Now, the properties are properly declared and they can be used and assigned values within the constructor. 

While this implementation is correct, there is a more precise way to achieve the same result in TypeScript by using the `public` keyword in the constructor parameters. 

When you prefix constructor parameters with `public` (or `private` or `protected`), TypeScript automatically creates corresponding class properties and initializes them with the values passed to the constructor.

This eliminates the need to manually declare the properties at the top of the class and then assign them in the constructor. 

Using the `public`, `private`, or `protected` prefixes in constructor parameters is considered best practice in TypeScript when you want to quickly declare and initialize class properties, as it makes the code more efficient and concise.

Here is the refactored version:

``` typescript
class BattleshipFactory implements IShipOptions {
  constructor(
    public type: string,
    public size: number,
    public seaworthy: boolean = true;
    public hitCounter: number,
  ) {
    // Out of scope
  }
  // Also out of scope 
}
```

#### The Constructor Body

Inside the curly braces `{}` of a class constructor, you generally find the logic that initializes the class, sets up initial state, or performs any other operations that are necessary when creating an instance of the class. 

Such operations include:
  * **Initializing properties:** Setting up properties that might depend on some initial logic or calculations.
  * **Validation:** Checking if the arguments passed to the constructor meet certain criteria.
  * **Event Listeners:** Setting up necessary event listeners or other callbacks.
  * **Method calls:** Triggering certain methods to initialize state or set up necessary data.

In the `BattleshipFactory` constructor, I initialized the `key` variable as a template literal string that conforms to the `SizeLookupKey` type. This `key` is dynamically constructed using the `ShipType` and `Version` arguments passed to the constructor, ensuring it matches the expected format (e.g., `'battleship-1990'`).

Subsequently, I created a `size` variable that utilizes the constructed `key` to look up the corresponding ship size in the `sizeLookup` `Record`. If the `size` retrieved from the lookup is `undefined`, indicating that the combination of `ShipType` and `Version` is invalid or unsupported, an error is thrown to signal the issue. Otherwise, the `size` property of the instance is assigned the retrieved value, ensuring the ship's size is correctly set based on its type and version.

#### Instance Methods

##### `hit` & `isSeaworthy`

* **`isSeaworthy` Check:** This check determines if the ship has exceeded its hit capacity.

* **`hitCounter` Increment:** Only increments if the ship is still seaworthy.

* **Messages:** Different messages are returned based on the ships status.

Commit message:

refactor(bs-ship-factory): adjust `SHIP_SYMBOLS` labels
- Updated vacant position ('VC') and ship symbols to
be 2 characters each to ensure uniformity in row/column
size when printing the gameboard.
- Added documentation for the `SHIP_SYMBOLS` object.

src/typescript/logic/bs-ship-factory/bs-ship-factory.md, after:

## `bs-ship.ts`

### Supplemental & Contextual Information

#### What's a `Record`?

In TypeScript, the `Record` utility type is used to create a type for an object with specific keys and corresponding values. It allows you to define a type that maps a set of keys to a specific type of value. 

* `Record<K, V>`: This is a utility type provided by TypeScript. It constructs an object type with properties of type `V` for keys of type `K`.

* When using `Record<SizeLookupKey, number | undefined>`, TypeScript expects that the `sizeLookup` object will include all possible keys defined by the `SizeLookupKey` type. `Record` ensures that the object conforms to the types shape, which means it should have all the keys that the `SizeLookupKey` type can produce. This is to ensure the prevention of runtime errors.

### `SHIP_SYMBOLS` 

This object complies with the `ShipStates` type, which says that the keys should match those in the `ShipType` enumeration. The `?` symbol (known as the optional property indicator) denotes that the object doesn't need to contain _all_ properties of the enumeration. The value associated with each key must be a symbol. 

The keys of the object are defined in the form of computed properties. This is done so that they conform to the type's enumeration.

`[ShipType.Carrier]: Symbol('CA')` computes to `Carrier: Symbol('Ca')`

The values are symbols that will represent each ship as positions on the gameboard (i.e, `row-1: [VC, VC, VC, CA, CA, CA, CA, CA, VC, VC]`, where `VC` is "vacant").

### `sizeLookup: Record<SizeLookupKey, number | undefined>`

This `sizeLookup` object was defined as a `Record` to ensure that all potential combinations of `ShipType` and `Version` are accounted for and explicitly handled. By using `Record<SizeLookupKey, number | undefined>`, TypeScript enforces that the `sizeLookup` object contains all possible keys derived from the `SizeLookupKey` type, which combines `ShipType` and `Version`. 

#### Key Points:

- **Complete Key Coverage**: The `Record` utility type ensures that every key represented by `SizeLookupKey` is present in the `sizeLookup` object, even if the corresponding value is `undefined`. This guarantees that all expected key combinations are accounted for, which can help prevent runtime errors related to missing keys.

- **Type Safety**: Using `Record` provides strict type checking, making sure that the `sizeLookup` object adheres to the defined shape. It helps maintain consistency and predictability in how keys and values are managed.

- **Explicit Handling**: Including all possible keys, even with `undefined` values, makes it clear which combinations are valid but currently not used, and allows for future flexibility if these keys become relevant.

### `BattleshipFactory imlements IShipOptions` Class

`BattleshipFactory` implements the `IShipOptions` interface and provides the actual logic for how the ship’s state changes, such as updating hits, checking if it's sunk, and any other behavior associated with the ship.

#### `public` Keyword 

In TypeScript, when you define a class that implements an interface, you typically need to explicitly declare the properties of the class before you can use them in the constructor or elsewhere.

Take, for example this **simplified**, _incorrect_ implementation:

``` typescript
class BattleshipFactory implements IShipOptions {
  constructor(
    type: string, 
    size: number, 
    seaworthy: boolean,
    hitCounter: number 
    ) {
    this.size = size;
    this.seaworthy = seaworthy;
    this.hitCounter = hitCounter;
  }
}
```

This code is _attempting_ to assign values to `this.size`, `this.hitCounter`, and `this.seaworthy`, but these properties haven't been declared in the class. TypeScript expects you to **explicitly** declare these properties within the class before using them.

Here is one fix:

``` typescript
class BattleshipFactory implements IShipOptions {
  type: string, 
  size: number;
  seaworthy: boolean;
  hitCounter: number;

  constructor(
    type: string, 
    size: number, 
    seaworthy: boolean,
    hitCounter: number
    ) {
    this.size = size;
    this.seaworthy = seaworthy;
    this.hitCounter = hitCounter;
  }
}
```

Now, the properties are properly declared and they can be used and assigned values within the constructor. 

While this implementation is correct, there is a more precise way to achieve the same result in TypeScript by using the `public` keyword in the constructor parameters. 

When you prefix constructor parameters with `public` (or `private` or `protected`), TypeScript automatically creates corresponding class properties and initializes them with the values passed to the constructor.

This eliminates the need to manually declare the properties at the top of the class and then assign them in the constructor. 

Using the `public`, `private`, or `protected` prefixes in constructor parameters is considered best practice in TypeScript when you want to quickly declare and initialize class properties, as it makes the code more efficient and concise.

Here is the refactored version:

``` typescript
class BattleshipFactory implements IShipOptions {
  constructor(
    public type: string,
    public size: number,
    public seaworthy: boolean = true;
    public hitCounter: number,
  ) {
    // Out of scope
  }
  // Also out of scope 
}
```

#### The Constructor Body

Inside the curly braces `{}` of a class constructor, you generally find the logic that initializes the class, sets up initial state, or performs any other operations that are necessary when creating an instance of the class. 

Such operations include:
  * **Initializing properties:** Setting up properties that might depend on some initial logic or calculations.
  * **Validation:** Checking if the arguments passed to the constructor meet certain criteria.
  * **Event Listeners:** Setting up necessary event listeners or other callbacks.
  * **Method calls:** Triggering certain methods to initialize state or set up necessary data.

In the `BattleshipFactory` constructor, I initialized the `key` variable as a template literal string that conforms to the `SizeLookupKey` type. This `key` is dynamically constructed using the `ShipType` and `Version` arguments passed to the constructor, ensuring it matches the expected format (e.g., `'battleship-1990'`).

Subsequently, I created a `size` variable that utilizes the constructed `key` to look up the corresponding ship size in the `sizeLookup` `Record`. If the `size` retrieved from the lookup is `undefined`, indicating that the combination of `ShipType` and `Version` is invalid or unsupported, an error is thrown to signal the issue. Otherwise, the `size` property of the instance is assigned the retrieved value, ensuring the ship's size is correctly set based on its type and version.

#### Instance Methods

##### `hit` & `isSeaworthy`

* **`isSeaworthy` Check:** This check determines if the ship has exceeded its hit capacity.

* **`hitCounter` Increment:** Only increments if the ship is still seaworthy.

* **Messages:** Different messages are returned based on the ships status.
